README.md, before:

<h1>Toronto Trash Heatmap</h1>

<h2>Development</h2>
<h3>Running Flask in Test mode</h3>
<code>flask run --cert="adhoc" --debug</code>
<h3>Using PostgreSQL to handle geospatial data</h3>
PostgreSQL is powerful enough to save and query geospatial data
To enable its power you must install <i>postgis</i> and <i>pgrouting</i> extensions. Follow: 

[Postgis installation](https://trac.osgeo.org/postgis/wiki/UsersWikiPostGIS3UbuntuPGSQLApt)

<h4>Setup database to use postgis<h4>
<b>Never install postgis on the default postgresql db!</b>
You must install it on user's database:

```bash
sudo su postgres psql
```

```sql
CREATE DATABASE <user_db>;

ALTER DATABASE <user_db> SET search_path=public,postgis,contrib;

\c <user_db>;

CREATE SCHEMA postgis;

CREATE EXTENSION postgis SCHEMA postgis;
--To check if all went well:
SELECT postgis_full_version();
```
The last line should give you something like this:
```
 POSTGIS="3.2.1" [EXTENSION] PGSQL="140" GEOS="3.10.2-CAPI-1.16.0" PROJ="8.2.1" LIBXML="2.9.13" LIBJSON="0.15" LIBPROTOBUF="1.3.3" WAGYU="0.5.0 (Internal)"
 ```

 <h4>PostGIS Resource</h4>
 Please refer to:

[Introduction of PostGIS](https://postgis.net/workshops/postgis-intro/index.html)

<h2>Testing</h2>

We use ``pytest``as the test suite.

<h3>Pytest relative import problem</h3>

There is a problem with pytest, that can't recognize relative the imports i.e. the way the app is structured,
pytest won't find the imports from ``src`` by itself. The solution is to configure it. Thats why I added the following
line to ``pyproject.toml``:

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
pythonpath = [
  "."
]
```

For more info see [this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/50610630).

Commit message:

added the base for SocketIO. Modified the application init sequence accordingly. Added a small test case

README.md, after:

<h1>Toronto Trash Heatmap</h1>

<h2>Development</h2>
<h3>Running Flask in Test mode</h3>
<code>flask run --cert="adhoc" --debug</code>
<h3>Using PostgreSQL to handle geospatial data</h3>
PostgreSQL is powerful enough to save and query geospatial data
To enable its power you must install <i>postgis</i> and <i>pgrouting</i> extensions. Follow: 

[Postgis installation](https://trac.osgeo.org/postgis/wiki/UsersWikiPostGIS3UbuntuPGSQLApt)

<h4>Setup database to use postgis<h4>
<b>Never install postgis on the default postgresql db!</b>
You must install it on user's database:

```bash
sudo su postgres psql
```

```sql
CREATE DATABASE <user_db>;

ALTER DATABASE <user_db> SET search_path=public,postgis,contrib;

\c <user_db>;

CREATE SCHEMA postgis;

CREATE EXTENSION postgis SCHEMA postgis;
--To check if all went well:
SELECT postgis_full_version();
```
The last line should give you something like this:
```
 POSTGIS="3.2.1" [EXTENSION] PGSQL="140" GEOS="3.10.2-CAPI-1.16.0" PROJ="8.2.1" LIBXML="2.9.13" LIBJSON="0.15" LIBPROTOBUF="1.3.3" WAGYU="0.5.0 (Internal)"
 ```

 <h4>PostGIS Resource</h4>
 Please refer to:

[Introduction of PostGIS](https://postgis.net/workshops/postgis-intro/index.html)

<h3>Using Socket.IO</h3>

I mainly use Socket.IO for sending the api token a goog authenticated client

I use ``Flask-SocketIO`` ([Docs](https://flask-socketio.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)) extension. There are few consideration for using this extension:

- The application setup needs a bit of change as the extension wraps around the normal Flask app setup
- There is no easy solution to test a socketio connection. However I managed to employ a bit hacky solution just to make sure the server runs.
- The extension mainly uses ``eventlet`` to serve the application. However it is recommended to use ``gunicorn`` in the production environment and avoid using the eventlet alone.

<h2>Testing</h2>

We use ``pytest``as the test suite.

<h3>Pytest relative import problem</h3>

There is a problem with pytest, that can't recognize relative the imports i.e. the way the app is structured,
pytest won't find the imports from ``src`` by itself. The solution is to configure it. Thats why I added the following
line to ``pyproject.toml``:

```toml
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
pythonpath = [
  "."
]
```

For more info see [this](https://stackoverflow.com/a/50610630).
